
                         Alien Arena 2011
                           Version 7.50

1. Scope

This document includes information about the GNU-Linux/Unix
version of Alien Arena 2011.  Custom options and other
information specific to Alien Arena are included here.

For general information, licensing, and contributers and see the
README.txt and license.txt documents (in the docs/ subdirectory
in the distribution archive).

For generic information about installation, see the GNU INSTALL
document.


2. Changes from Previous Versions

This information is for packagers and those who have a previous
installation of Alien Arena.  (If this does not apply to you, it
is safe to skip to the next topic: Installation.)

Briefly, important differences are:

  * Alien Arena 2011 uses a GNU Autotools build and install.
  * The game.so shared library no longer exists.
  * All file writes go to the user's home directory.
  * The dedicated server has been renamed to crx-ded.
  * There is an dedicated-server-only build option.
  * There is an "alternate" single directory install option.
  * Additional dependency: Open Dynamics Engine (libode).
  * Additional dependency: FreeType 2 (libfreetype).

Warning: The game.so library is no longer a separate module.  If
a game.so file exists in an arena/ or data1/ directory, the
results are "undefined".

Attempts to write into read-only space when data is installed in
a shared/ directory have been corrected.  There is now a botinfo/
directory in the user's home directory.  The default home
directory is .codered/.  That can be changed using an environment
variable, COR_GAME.

The dedicated server was renamed to simplify program name
translation using the standard configure option.  Also, the
dedicated server is intended to be an integral part of the
package.  We would prefer it not be distributed separately and
there is no particular reason to do so.  There is a configure
option, provided mostly for Game Server Providers, to disable
building the client program.

The standard installation now uses the GNU Autotools methods and
defaults.  In some cases, the "traditional" single directory
install in the user's home directory may be preferred.  See the
Alternate Install topic below for details.


3. Installation

If you are installing Alien Arena using your distribution's
package manager, follow those instructions.

If you are reading this, you may have already unpacked the
distribution archive into a directory in your HOME directory.
(otherwise, hint: $ tar -xzf alienarena-<version>.tar.gz ).

To build and install (takes some minutes):
  $ ./configure
  $ make
  $ sudo make install

To run:
  $ crx

By default, this will install the game programs and data like
this:

  /usr/local/
    bin/
      crx
      crx-ded  (dedicated server)
    share/
      alienarena/
        aa.png  (icon)
        arena/
        botinfo/
        data1/
      doc/
        alienarena/
          <various documents>

When the program is run, a directory is created in the user HOME
directory.  Various kinds of data (config files, downloaded data,
custom bot setups) are written there.  The default directory name
is .codered.  That can be changed using an environment variable,
COR_GAME.

For example:
  $ export COR_GAME=/home/user/.alienarena

Current settings are stored in .codered/arena/config.cfg.  For
custom settings, create a file, .codered/arena/autoexec.cfg.
Details about settings are beyond the scope of this document.  Go
to the websites, the forum and the IRC channel for more
information.

Following installation, intermediate files generated by the build
may be removed using:

  $ make clean

To uninstall the program and data that 'sudo make install'
installed, run:

  $ sudo make uninstall

The uninstall procedure may not remove all files and directories.
Some manual removal may be required.


4. Custom Configure Options

Run '$ ./configure --help' for a list of options.  Note that many
of the options are built-in and some are not meaningful or useful
for Alien Arena.  Options are entered on the command line in the
usual way; the help output has the details.  Refer to the GNU
INSTALL document for general details.

To build the dedicated server only, use the following configure
option:
  --disable-client

By default, configure produces a status message giving
information on the configuration.  To hide that message, use:
  --disable-build-status

To rename the programs, use the standard configure option. For
example:
  --program-transform-name='s/crx/alienarena/'

To install to a different location, use the standard configure
option. For example:
  --prefix=/usr/local/games

Other Alien Arena custom options are intended mostly for
developer use.  If you use them, it is assumed that you know what
you are doing.


5. Tools

Tools/FUSE contains a game server browser.  See documents in that
subdirectory for details.

Tools/LinuxScripts contains tools for server management.  See the
README there for details.


6. Alternate Install

This configures the installation to use the "traditional", single
directory, in-place install.  It does not define DATADIR, and the
executables need to be in the top game directory.  Normally, this
install would be done somewhere in your HOME directory.  Root
privileges would not be required to write the game data.
Currently, the configure option for renaming of the executables
is not supported.

If you are a map-builder, you should use this option.  Some
mapping tools may not work with the "standard" install.

If you regularly update to the latest development code from the
Subversion Repository, you may prefer this option.

The two install methods are not mutually exclusive.  With some
care, it is possible to use both.

The configure option is:
  --enable-alternate-install

Following the usual 'make', it requires

  $ make install-alternate

This just copies the executables to the top game directory.  The
effect of using any other 'install' make target is "undefined".

