
ALIEN ARENA and it's original content are a copyright of COR
Entertainment, LLC.

The source code of Alien Arena is Free Software. You can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version. Source code can be
located at http://red.planetarena.org

The included TrueType fonts (FreeSans and FreeMono) are from the GNU
FreeFont package (http://www.gnu.org/software/freefont/); they are
free software distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License version 3 (http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html).

Permission is granted to freely distribute (without restriction) the
game data in this installation(models, maps, textures, sound, etc) as
a whole, and with the intention of being used with Alien
Arena. However, it is not permissible to distribute, sell, or use for
profit individual portions or items of the game data without express
consent from COR Entertainment.

'rcon' and 'svstat' ruby scripts are Copyright (C) 2009 Tony Jackson
and Licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License

The Debian packaging is (C) 2009, Andres Mejia <mcitadel@gmail.com>
and is licensed under the GPL, see `/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL'.

ALIEN ARENA may be included in free compilation CD's and similar
packages without consent, provided it adheres to the above
restrictions.

Contact:  http://red.planetarena.org

Privacy Policy: http://icculus.org/alienarena/rpa/privacy2.html

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Parts of the source code are Copyright ID Software. Released
under GPL Version 2.

Parts of ACE Bot source code are Copyright Steve Yeager. Released under
GPL.

Textures in the subdirectory data1/textures/texturelib from
texturelib.com. Used as permitted by their license:
http://texturelib.com/license/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

